Summary Generator is a project which tries to achieve optimal summarisation of large textual data. It aims to achieve so using the machine learning algorithms for natural language processing. In order to simplify this problem, this  project focuses on a combination of extractive and abstractive summary generation using  natural language processing algorithms in machine learning. Automatic summarisation of text works by first calculating the word frequency for the entire text document. Then, the most informative words are ranked, sorted and  stored. Each sentence is then scored based on the quantity of the high frequency words that it contains.

The identified domain of people who would be benefitted by this product would be students; often, textbooks and other reading materials contain large and redundant information. This product will simplify the process of learning by providing a summary of only the informative content. Researchers; they need to go through a lot of research papers for their work on a daily basis. Going through such large documents is time consuming and a waste of effort when the material turns out to be irrelevant. The summaries of the research papers would be extremely helpful for a quick reference. Others; apart from the students and the researchers, any common human being can benefit from this as any document, article such as a news article can be summarized to make lives simpler. 

This project takes shape as a product in the form of a web application to enhance portability and that it can reach out to many consumers. The web application contains three modes of user-friendly inputs; direct text box entry, a .txt or a .docx file and .pdf files which are converted to a text document within the web application. Once these three modes of input is explored, the user can choose to either generate a summary or  make use of an addition features that displays the list of keywords of the documents that can help the user test the relevance of the document based on their needs. Once the input file is uploaded and processed, the summary is generated in a text file which can be downloaded from the web application for further use. 
